README.md, before:

# Remark PlantUML Local Plugin

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/crooy/remark-plantuml-local.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/crooy/remark-plantuml-local) [![MIT License](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat)](LICENSE)

`remark-plantuml-local` is a plugin for [remarkjs](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark) that converts PlantUML code blocks to local image files. The plugin supports including external `.puml` files and can store generated images locally or inline SVG content.

## Installing

```bash
npm install --save remark-plantuml-local
```

## Example

You can use this plugin like following

### Markdown

````markdown
# Your markdown including PlantUML code block

```plantuml Your title
class SimplePlantUMLPlugin {
    + transform(syntaxTree: AST): AST
}
```

# Including external .puml files

```plantuml
!include diagram.puml

class MainClass {
    + main(): void
}
```
````

### JavaScript

```javascript
const remark = require("remark");
const plantumlLocal = require("remark-plantuml-local");
const fs = require("fs");
const path = require("path");

const input = fs.readFileSync(path.resolve(__dirname, "./your-markdown.md")).toString();
const output = await remark().use(plantumlLocal).process(input);

console.log(output.toString());
// will generate local image files or inline SVG content
```

## Plugin Options

The plugin supports various configuration options:

```javascript
const options = {
  baseUrl: "https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml", // PlantUML server URL
  outputFormat: "png", // "png" or "svg"
  outputDir: "./static", // Directory to store generated images
  inlineSvg: true, // Whether to inline SVG content (only applies when outputFormat is "svg")
  includePath: "./", // Base path for resolving included .puml files
  urlPrefix: "/" // URL prefix to replace "./" in generated image URLs
};

remark().use(simplePlantUML, options).process(input);
```

### Option Details

- **baseUrl**: The PlantUML server URL (default: `https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml`)
- **outputFormat**: Output format for diagrams - `"png"` or `"svg"` (default: `"png"`)
- **outputDir**: Directory where generated images will be stored (default: `"./static"`)
- **inlineSvg**: When `outputFormat` is `"svg"`, whether to inline the SVG content in HTML or save as files (default: `true`)
- **includePath**: Base path for resolving `!include` directives in PlantUML code (default: `"./"`)
- **urlPrefix**: URL prefix to replace `"./"` in generated image URLs (default: `"/"`)

### Example: Customizing the Public URL for Images

If your static files are served from a different public path than where they are generated, use `urlPrefix`:

```js
const options = {
  outputDir: "./static/diagrams", // Where files are saved
  urlPrefix: "/assets/diagrams/", // How files are referenced in HTML
  outputFormat: "png"
};

remark().use(plantumlLocal, options).process(input);
```

This will save images to `./static/diagrams/plantuml-xxxx.png` and reference them as `/assets/diagrams/plantuml-xxxx.png` in your HTML output.

- By default, `urlPrefix` is `/`, so images will be referenced from the web root (e.g., `/plantuml-xxxx.png`).
- No double slashes or directory leaks will occur in the generated URLs.

## Features

### Include External .puml Files

The plugin supports PlantUML's `!include` directive for `.puml` files:

```plantuml
!include common-styles.puml
!include diagram.puml

class MyClass {
    + method(): void
}
```

### Local Image Storage

Instead of using external PlantUML URLs, the plugin fetches the generated images and stores them locally in the specified `outputDir`.

**Filenames are based on a SHA-256 hash of the PlantUML code**, ensuring that each unique diagram gets a unique filename. This also means that if you use the same diagram code in multiple places, the image will only be generated and stored once.

**Built-in caching:** Before writing a file, the plugin checks if it already exists. If so, it reuses the existing file and does not regenerate or duplicate the image on disk.

### Inline SVG Support

When using SVG format with `

Commit message:

changed option, now support for inline images

README.md, after:

# Remark PlantUML Local Plugin

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/crooy/remark-plantuml-local.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/crooy/remark-plantuml-local) [![MIT License](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat)](LICENSE)

`remark-plantuml-local` is a plugin for [remarkjs](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark) that converts PlantUML code blocks to local image files. The plugin supports including external `.puml` files and can store generated images locally or inline SVG content.

## Installing

```bash
npm install --save remark-plantuml-local
```

## Example

You can use this plugin like following

### Markdown

````markdown
# Your markdown including PlantUML code block

```plantuml Your title
class SimplePlantUMLPlugin {
    + transform(syntaxTree: AST): AST
}
```

# Including external .puml files

```plantuml
!include diagram.puml

class MainClass {
    + main(): void
}
```
````

### JavaScript

```javascript
const remark = require("remark");
const plantumlLocal = require("remark-plantuml-local");
const fs = require("fs");
const path = require("path");

const input = fs.readFileSync(path.resolve(__dirname, "./your-markdown.md")).toString();
const output = await remark().use(plantumlLocal).process(input);

console.log(output.toString());
// will generate local image files or inline SVG content
```

## Plugin Options

The plugin supports various configuration options:

```javascript
const options = {
  baseUrl: "https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml", // PlantUML server URL
  outputFormat: "png", // "png" or "svg"
  outputDir: "./static", // Directory to store generated images
  inlineImage: false, // Whether to inline images (SVG as HTML, PNG as PlantUML server URLs)
  includePath: "./", // Base path for resolving included .puml files
  urlPrefix: "/" // URL prefix to replace "./" in generated image URLs
};

remark().use(simplePlantUML, options).process(input);
```

### Option Details

- **baseUrl**: The PlantUML server URL (default: `https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml`)
- **outputFormat**: Output format for diagrams - `"png"` or `"svg"` (default: `"png"`)
- **outputDir**: Directory where generated images will be stored (default: `"./static"`)
- **inlineImage**: When `true`, inlines images instead of creating local files. SVG content is inlined as HTML, PNG images use PlantUML server URLs (default: `false`)
- **includePath**: Base path for resolving `!include` directives in PlantUML code (default: `"./"`)
- **urlPrefix**: URL prefix to replace `"./"` in generated image URLs (default: `"/"`)

### Example: Customizing the Public URL for Images

If your static files are served from a different public path than where they are generated, use `urlPrefix`:

```js
const options = {
  outputDir: "./static/diagrams", // Where files are saved
  urlPrefix: "/assets/diagrams/", // How files are referenced in HTML
  outputFormat: "png"
};

remark().use(plantumlLocal, options).process(input);
```

This will save images to `./static/diagrams/plantuml-xxxx.png` and reference them as `/assets/diagrams/plantuml-xxxx.png` in your HTML output.

- By default, `urlPrefix` is `/`, so images will be referenced from the web root (e.g., `/plantuml-xxxx.png`).
- No double slashes or directory leaks will occur in the generated URLs.

## Features

### Include External .puml Files

The plugin supports PlantUML's `!include` directive for `.puml` files:

```plantuml
!include common-styles.puml
!include diagram.puml

class MyClass {
    + method(): void
}
```

### Local Image Storage

Instead of using external PlantUML URLs, the plugin fetches the generated images and stores them locally in the specified `outputDir`.

**Filenames are based on a SHA-256 hash of the PlantUML code**, ensuring that each unique diagram gets a unique filename. This also means that if you use the same diagram code in multiple places, the image will only be generated and stored once.

**Built-in caching:** Before writing a file, the plugin checks if it already exists. If so, it reuses the existing file and does not regenerate or duplicate the image on disk.

### Inline SVG Support

When using SVG format with `
